---
layout: post
title: Week 13 (April 18-20, 2016)
---

This week, we will cap off our discussion of probability and decision making before introducing the final big topic of the semester: parametric regression models.  

Topics for Monday:   
- the utility of wealth  
- optimizing utility  
- bootstrap resampling for portfolio modeling  

Topics for Wednesday:  
- the normal linear regression model: rationale and assumptions   
- If time: parameter and prediction uncertainty under the normal linear regression model.  


### Reading

Please read Chapter 10 of the course packet, on utility and decision making.  

For Monday, please read the [supplemental notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/decisions_supplement.pdf) on the utility of wealth and bootstrap resampling.

For Wednesday, please begin reading Chapter 11 of the course packet on the normal linear regression model.  

Optional: if you'd like a more mathematical treatment of utility functions, [this is a decent introduction.](http://www.norstad.org/finance/util.pdf)

### Software

Please download the following two scripts: `portfolio.R` and `saratoga_nlrm.R`.  These will help you on this week's homework. 

Please also visit the [newspapers walkthrough](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/newspapers/newspapers.html) to familiarize yourself with the normal linear regression model.  

### Exercises

I have posted [a solution to the decision tree problem]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/treesolution.pdf) from last week's homework, as well as [an R script for the investment problem.]({{ site.baseurl }}/r/hw8.R)  The corresponding video walkthrough [is here.](https://youtu.be/jPcPXXh_ZJ0)

[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises09-STA371H.pdf) will finish off the probability and utility unit, and provide a short introduction to the idea of the normal linear regression model.  This is the second-to-last set of exercises this semester.  

