---
layout: post
title: Week 3 (February 1--3, 2016)
---

On Monday, we will finish up our discussion of the goals of regression analysis and introduce the idea of using least squares to fit nonlinear curves.  Key ideas:  
* residual plots    
* defining new variables from old ones  
* polynomial regression  
* transformation of variables  
* exponential models  
* interpreting transformed models: doubling time and elasticity.

On Wednesday, we finish up any the material on nonlinear regression from Monday.  We will then start on Chapter 3 of the course packet:  
* power-law models and the double-log transformation  
* additive versus multiplicative residuals in a power law  
* interpreting power laws: elasticity  
* naive prediction intervals   


### Software

Outside of class, complete the following R walkthroughs.  
- [Utility bills versus temperature.](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/utilities/utilities.html).  Polynomial regression.  
- [Economic development and infant mortality.](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/infmort/infmort.html)  Using transformations to fit nonlinear curves.  
- [kidney function and aging](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/creatinine/creatinine.html): naive prediction intervals and the decomposition of variance  

### Readings

Please finish up Chapter 2 of the course packet and read all of Chapter 3.

Supplemental reading: [Chapter 3](http://jgscott.github.io/STA371H_Spring2016/files/DAPP.pdf) of Tufte's book again has many good examples of regression analysis.  For this week, I suggest you consult the last example problem in Chapter 3, on interpreting regression models when both variables are re-expressed in terms of their logarithms. 


### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises02-STA371H.pdf) are about linear and nonlinear regression.  

My take on last week's exercises is [available on YouTube](https://youtu.be/PdaioEVebqo).  The corresponding R script is available through the R Scripts tab, above.




