---
layout: post
title: Week 7 (February 29 - March 2, 2016)
---

On Monday, we will spend a good amount of time discussing the last homework set.  We will then start Chapter 6 of the course packet on multiple regression.  The key idea here is that of a partial relationship between two variables in a multiple-regression model.    

On Wednesday, we will finish Chapter 6, revisiting four old ideas in the new context of multiple regression:    
* checking the assumption of linearity.    
* incorporating grouping variables.  
* quantifying uncertainty via bootstrapping.  
* permutation tests for assessing the evidence for the existence of a postulated effect.  

This is our last week of new material before the midterm.  


### Readings

Please finish Chapter 6 of the course packet.  We will cover through page 143 on Monday, and the rest of the chapter on Wednesday.  

A good supplemental reading here is chapter 4 of "Data Analysis for Politics and Policy" by Edward Tufte (starting on page 135).  


### Software

Outside of class, complete the following R walkthrough:    
* [The wage gap](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/salary/salary.html): an introduction to multiple regression.  

Please also download the file saratoga.R, which reproduces every analysis performed for the house-price example in Chapter 6 of the course packet.  Run through the code here and make sure you understand how to carry out each of these steps.  


### Exercises  

[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises06-STA371H.pdf) are about multiple regression.  


