---
layout: post
title: Week 14 (April 24-26, 2017)
---

This week, we continue our study of parametric probability models by talking about the bivariate normal distribution, and about the stock market.  

Topics for Monday:   
- the bivariate normal distribution.  
- regression to the mean.  
- Monte Carlo simulation of stock/bond portfolios.  

Topics for Wednesday:  
- the limitations of parametric probability models.   
- bootstrap resampling for modeling portfolios with many assets.  


### Reading

Please read the rest of Chapter 15 on the normal distribution.  You can safely skip the section entitled "Functions of random variables (advanced topic)" starting on page 316.  You are not responsible for this section in this course.

For Monday of next week, please read through page 327 of Chapter 16.  You can safely stop once you reach the section entitled "Advanced topic: estimating the parameters of the logistic regression model."  You are not responsible for anything beyond this section.


### Software 

For Monday, please download the R script `bivariate_normal.R` from the R Scripts tab above.  For the bivariate normal script to work, you will need to first install the `mvtnorm` library in R.  

For Wednesday, please download the script `portfolio.R`.

### Exercises

This week marks the last set of exercises for the semester.  [Exercises 9]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises08-STA371H.pdf) are on simulating portfolios and logistic regression models.   They are due in class on the last day of the semester: Friday, May 5, 2017.  You may submit them either as a hard copy under my office door (CBA 6.478) or as an electronic PDF copy to statdropbox@gmail.com (same e-mail as for projects).  



